Issue 316:  fixing bugs (#449)
ubuntu/ubuntu-project-docs: docs/contributors/bug-fix/check-if-is-it-already-fixed.md

 postfix | 2.9.6-1~12.04.3   | precise-updates | source, amd64, armel, armhf, i386, powerpc
 postfix | 2.11.0-1          | trusty          | source, amd64, arm64, armhf, i386, powerpc, ppc64el
 postfix | 2.11.0-1ubuntu1.2 | trusty-updates  | source, amd64, arm64, armhf, i386, powerpc, ppc64el
 postfix | 3.1.0-3           | xenial          | source, amd64, arm64, armhf, i386, powerpc, ppc64el, s390x
 postfix | 3.1.0-3ubuntu0.3  | xenial-updates  | source, amd64, arm64, armhf, i386, powerpc, ppc64el, s390x
 postfix | 3.3.0-1           | bionic          | source, amd64, arm64, armhf, i386, ppc64el, s390x
 postfix | 3.3.0-1ubuntu1    | cosmic          | source, amd64, arm64, armhf, i386, ppc64el, s390x
```

Debian can also be worth checking:

```none
$ rmadison -u debian postfix
postfix    | 3.3.0-1          | testing        | source, amd64, arm64, armel, armhf, i386, mips64el, mipsel, ppc64el, s390x
postfix    | 3.3.0-1          | unstable       | source, amd64, arm64, armel, armhf, i386, mips64el, mipsel, ppc64el, s390x
...
```

We see from the first output that `3.3.0-1ubuntu1` exists under Cosmic, so
`postfix` has been modified there. Let's see what was changed.

> ### Clone the Package

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Clone the package
```

Find the repository name:

```none
$ apt-cache show postfix | grep Source:
```

> In this case, there is no "Source" field, so we just use "`postfix`".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, there is no ``Source`` field, so we just use "`postfix`".
```

```none
$ git ubuntu clone postfix postfix-gu
```

> This will create a new git clone of the postfix repo named `postfix-gu`, with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This creates a new Git clone of the ``postfix`` repo named `postfix-gu`, with
```

> a remote of `pkg`. The current branch will be `ubuntu-devel`, and the various

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a remote of `pkg`. The current branch is `ubuntu-devel`, and the various
```

> versions for each distribution version will be under `pkg/ubuntu/version`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
versions for each distribution version is under `pkg/ubuntu/version`.
```

Notes:

> * Due to {lpbug}`this bug <1761821>`, you may get:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Due to bug {lpbug}`1761821`, you may get:
```

  `fatal: could not read Username for 'https://git.launchpad.net': terminal prompts disabled.`
  It's safe to ignore this.

>  * The first time you run this command, a git-ubuntu entry will be added to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * The first time you run this command, a ``git-ubuntu`` entry is added to
```

   `.gitignore`.

>  * Sometimes it can be helpful to checkout the git repositories for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Sometimes it can be helpful to checkout the Git repositories for the
```

   package maintained by Debian and/or upstream. These would be checked out

>    to "`postfix-debian`" and "`postfix`" respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   to `postfix-debian` and `postfix` respectively.
```

> ### View the Commit Log

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### View the commit log
```

+--- a/src/postconf/postconf_dbms.c
++++ b/src/postconf/postconf_dbms.c
+@@ -174,10 +174,10 @@
+        */
+       dict = dict_ht_open(dict_spec, O_CREAT | O_RDWR, 0);
+       dict_register(dict_spec, dict);
+-      if ((fp = vstream_fopen(cf_file, O_RDONLY, 0)) == 0
+-          && errno != EACCES) {
+-          msg_warn("open \"%s\" configuration \"%s\": %m",
+-                   dp->db_type, cf_file);
++      if ((fp = vstream_fopen(cf_file, O_RDONLY, 0)) == 0) {
++        if (errno != EACCES)
++              msg_warn("open \"%s\" configuration \"%s\": %m",
++                           dp->db_type, cf_file);
+           myfree(dict_spec);
+           return;
+       }
diff --git a/debian/patches/series b/debian/patches/series
index c2e47271..1f77ec0b 100644
--- a/debian/patches/series
+++ b/debian/patches/series
@@ -15,3 +15,4 @@
 50_LANG.diff
 70_postfix-check.diff
 tls_version.diff
+fix-postconf-segfault.diff
```

Here we see both the patch and the change to `debian/patches/series` to
include the patch. This is the fix we need!

## Was it fixed in Debian?

Sometimes the fix may have been updated in Debian instead of Ubuntu. There are

> many ways to locate fixes from Debian. Debian maintains its own git

Reviewer: ```suggestion
many ways to locate fixes from Debian. Debian maintains its own Git
```

repository for many (but not all) of its packages, so having a clone of this
can be handy.

First, check Debian's bug tracker at `https://bugs.debian.org/src:<package-name>`
for relevant bug reports or patches.

To find the source repository URL, use either of these approaches:

- Use `debcheckout` to check out the package directly:

  ```none
  $ debcheckout <package-name>
  $ cd <package-name>
  $ git log
  ```

- Use `apt showsrc` to read the `Vcs-Git` and `Vcs-Browser` fields, which
  point to the package's source repository and its web interface:

  ```none
  $ apt showsrc --only-source <package-name>
  ```

  Look for commit messages that describe fixes relevant to your issue. If a
  bug number is referenced, open the link and review the context.

For example, let's assume for argument's sake that we had a problem with
`sshd` in Xenial, where it would fail to check config files before reloading
([as in this bug](https://bugs.launchpad.net/ubuntu/+source/openssh/+bug/1771340)).
From Debian's `openssh`
[source package page](https://packages.debian.org/source/stretch/openssh),

> we find the git repository at `https://salsa.debian.org/ssh-team/openssh` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
we find the Git repository at `https://salsa.debian.org/ssh-team/openssh` and
```

  remotes/origin/pristine-tar          5fdaf4d7d pristine-tar data for openssh_8.2p1.orig.tar.gz
  remotes/origin/sarge                 f297a6e07 debconf-updatepo
  remotes/origin/squeeze               faa0b9a59 releasing package openssh version 1:5.5p1-6+squeeze5
  remotes/origin/stretch               0ef21e4e2 Merge branch 'fix-923486-stretch' into 'stretch'
  remotes/origin/ubuntu/saucy          f8daff632 releasing package openssh version 1:6.2p2-6ubuntu0.5
  remotes/origin/ubuntu/trusty         f6ffa5954 releasing package openssh version 1:6.6p1-2ubuntu2
  remotes/origin/ubuntu/xenial         bd9cfb441 releasing package openssh version 1:7.2p2-4ubuntu1
  remotes/origin/upstream              f0de78bd4 Import openssh_8.2p1.orig.tar.gz
  remotes/origin/upstream-experimental 102062f82 Import openssh_8.0p1.orig.tar.gz
  remotes/origin/upstream-jessie       487bdb3a5 Import openssh_6.7p1.orig.tar.gz
  remotes/origin/upstream-stretch      971a76537 Import openssh_7.4p1.orig.tar.gz
  remotes/origin/wheezy                e345e2a5f releasing package openssh 1:6.0p1-4+deb7u3
  remotes/origin/wheezy-backports      1d95da812 Remove now-unnecessary backports-specific version changes.
```

> That's a lot of branches, but the ones of most interest will be `master` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's a lot of branches, but the ones of most interest are `master` and
```

> sometimes `experimental`. `master` is already checked out, so lets peruse its

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sometimes `experimental`. `master` is already checked out, so let's peruse its
```

commit history. Doing this, we find:

```none
commit d4181e15b03171d1363cd9d7a50b209697a80b01
Author:     Colin Watson <cjwatson@debian.org>
AuthorDate: Mon Jun 26 10:18:26 2017 +0100
Commit:     Colin Watson <cjwatson@debian.org>
CommitDate: Mon Jun 26 10:18:26 2017 +0100

    Test configuration before starting or reloading sshd under systemd (closes: #865770).
```

Our issue would be the same as Debian bug #865770.

> It's also possible to search for commits via Debian's web front-end for git,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's also possible to search for commits via Debian's web front-end for Git,
```
